		The Nightmare Object Library Version 5
		 Copyright (c) 1992-1997 George Reese

Use of the Nightmare Object Library, in part or in whole, constitutes
acceptance of the terms detailed in this document.  The administrator
of the agreement shall have the right to terminate this license
immediately by written notice upon Licensee's breach of, or
non-compliance with, any of its terms.  Licensee shall be liable for
any infringement or damages resulting from the failure of the Licensee
or users of the Licensee's system to abide by the terms of this License. 

Terms of the Nightmare Object Library Agreement

1) This copyright is held by George Reese, and he is the sole
administrator of the agreement as well as the authority for
negotiating licensing arrangements outside the scope of this agreement.

2) The administrator of this agreement reserves the right to negotiate
independent agreements free of the restrictions of this agreement.
Without express written consent of the administrator of this agreement, all
terms of this agreement are fully binding on anyone using the Nightmare Object
Library.

3) Commercial use of the Nightmare Object Library is prohibited
without express written consent from the administrator of this
agreement.

4) All works based on this library are considered DERIVATIVE WORKS and
are subject to this agreement.

5) The Nightmare Object Library may not be used to compete against
Nightmare LPMud for its player base or developers.  Specifically,
users of the Nightmare Object Library must agree to the following
non-compete clauses:
	* No creator or former creator on Nightmare LPMud may license
	  the Nightmare Object Library.
	* No mud using the Nightmare Object Library in part or in
	  whole may have creators who have been or currently are
	  creators on Nightmare LPMud.
	* No mud using the Nightmare Object Library may in any way
	  recruit from the player base of Nightmare LPMud.  This
	  includes a prohibition against asking Nightmare LPMud
	  players to try out your mud.  This prohibition does not
	  apply to advertisements aimed at a general audience (such
	  as USENET postings).
	* No mud using the Nightmare Object Library may use in any
	  manner realms, domains, spells, or code marked in header
	  files as 'From Nightmare LPMud' that once appeared on or
	  currently appears in Nightmare LPMud.
Definitions:
	* A creator is any person with developmental access to any
	  portion of the mud, regardless of whether any actual
	  development has occurred.
	* A user is anyone who logs into the mud in question.
Exemptions:
	* Nightmare LPMud creators may use PERSONAL copies of the
	  Nightmare Object Library solely for the purposes of
	  developing for Nightmare LPMud

6) The mudlib name may not be changed without express written consent
by the administrator of this agreement.  In addition, the mudlib name
must be displayed in
	a) Intemud contexts that call of the display of the mudlib name
	   and base mudlib name.
	b) The welcome screen for all text based games.
	c) As the return value for the sefun mudlib().
	d) Any other place where the mudlib name is represented.

7) All headers in all files must be retained as is.

8) This document must be retained with any copy of the Nightmare Object
Library in the /doc/mudlib directory along with the Credits file.
