			Nightmare FAQ (November 1995)
		  -----------------------------------------

The following list are most of the frequently asked questions people new
to Nightmare have. Be sure you have read this whole thing and know that
your question is unanswered before you go asking someone else. Everyone
here is happy to help you, but you must understand that answering the same
question over and over again for several thousand players is wholly
unmanageable.  To that end, we have created this FAQ.

************************************************************************

1) What is the first thing I should do here as a newbie?

Type "help". Every command on Nightmare has a help file, but there
are other help files as well. The "help" command will list those other
help file for you.

2) How do i move around?

There are two motion commands on Nightmare, "go" and "enter".  

The "go" command represents motion towards, for example "go south".  Most
directional commands, for the sake of convenience, have been aliased
so that "s" means "go south".

The "enter" command is used for motion into, for example, "enter pub".
Use the enter command whenever you are going into something.

3) Where should I go first?

First place you should visit is the Praxis library in west Praxis. 
The books in the library explain the laws of Nightmare. You must know
the laws and obey them. If you break any of them you will have to talk
to the law department, which is not always pleasant. (Actually, they
are a cool bunch of people, but have to do their job, which could be
unpleasant for the law-breakers).

4) So I've read all the laws. And now what?

The first area of the game you should visit is the Newbieland. There, you
could find useful information on the Newbieland board, play with other
newbies and gain some useful experiences. In addition, you may be able to
get some free stuff to help you start off. Enjoy exploring!

5) How do I get to Newbieland?
Newbie land is inside the portal located at the initial login site for
every town.  At the portal, type "enter portal".

6) What happens when I die?
As a mortal, when you die, you join the living dead in a domain known
as the Underworld.  As a member of the undead, you gain special powers
not available to the living.  You live, however, with the knowledge
that if you die again, your death is permanent.  That is, when a
member of the undead dies, that person is erased from Nightmare.

On the other hand, you may simply ask a cleric, monk, or kataan to
resurrect you if you are undead.  Resurrection returns you to the land
of the living.  Unfortunately, those who go through the pain of
resurrection often find themselves less skillful than in their
previous life.

People who die while undead may not be resurrected, as it is too late.

7) How do I learn even more about this mud?

The first people you should talk to are other newbies. They are most 
familiar with many of the questions you might have. You can do this by
using the newbie line. To use the newbie line type <newbie message>.
High mortals and avatars, both of whom have access to the newbie line,
also are excellent source of information.

8) What is legal here?

Read the rules in the Praxis library.

9) I have a problem. Who do I talk to?

You can talk to other newbies, high mortals, avatars, or the Advocate.
The Advocate is an immortal whose only job is to deal with players
problems (these do not include things like "Can you get me this and
that? Can you move me there? Can you kill this person for me?"). The
Advocate also serves as a liaison between players and immortals, so if
you have something that needs to be addressed by arches, you should
first talk to the Advocate. 

10) What does the stuff in the "who" listing mean?

The who listing is designed to give you information about who is currently
present in our reality. The listing is divided by player and immortal
category (e.g. newbies, mortals, high mortals, avatars, creators and
arches). The "who" listing also gives you information on which
players are idle and which are in edit mode. Players or creators that
are in edit mode generally don't like to be disturbed by
tells, unless in cases of emergency.

11) How do i tell how long someone has been idle?

You can use the "idle <player>" command.

12) How do I send and read mail on Nightmare?

Visit the post office. From the square, 3w, enter office. The commands are
shown on a list in the post office.

13) What is the difference between a guild and a class?

A class is considered your general way of life, akin to the modern
expression of saying "I work in television". It does not specify  exactly
what it is I do, but it does suggest that I have certain talents I have
gained through training and such which will last me throughout my life
that may be manifest in many different manners. Similarly in the reality
of Nightmare, there are seven general classes of people: clerics,
fighters, fishers, kataans, mages, monks, and rogues.  There are help
files on each of these.  

Once you join a class, you are a member for life. The class is your
source of power. A guild on the other hand is a social institution.
It's main function is to give an individual player character and
individuality that is not common in LPMud games.  There are no great
powers gained by joining a guild, but they do help tie you in a way to
other players in the game. Your choice of guild should thus reflect
your game personality. The number of guilds is limited only by how
many the immortals of the mud have created.  

14) Can I join more than one class? 

Nightmare IV presents you with that option once you become a high mortal
(level 25). If you choose to do so, you must be prepared to make certain
compromises. No one but you can know if that is a wise decision for you to
make. But if you are the one who wishes to explore new things an take
risks, by all means, go for it.

15) What is Nightmare IV?

It is simply version 4.0 of the underlying library of objects we use
to build Nightmare.  The reason you hear a lot of talk about it is
that it represents a total rewrite of the software we used to use,
version 3.3.2.  Thus people use "Nightmare IV" and "the new mudlib"
and "the new Nightmare" interchangeably.

16) What are the different guilds on Nightmare?

Type <help guilds> to get the most up to date guild information.

17) How do I join a guild?

The method will vary from guild to guild. You should talk to a member of
the guild you want to join to find out the process for that guild.
Remember that each guild on Nightmare is meant only for a certain
restricted group of characters, so a guild good for one player is not
necessarily good for another player.

18) Have you seen player X?

Type <finger [name]> and you will get all of the information you need.

19) What can I use to fight monsters?

You can obviously use your limbs (melee) and any weapon you find, as
well as specialized magic spells.  Additionally, as in real life, any
object in the game could be used as a weapon, although it will be less
effective than designated weapons. 

20) What do I use to protect myself from being hit?

You can use amour (<wear amour>) or magical protection given to you by
your or somebody else's casting of a protection spell on you.

21) How do I heal?

There are many ways to be healed. You heal naturally over time. This
natural process of healing is speeded up when you rest, eat well and drink
plenty of fluids. You can also be healed in the hospital, but that, of
course, costs money. Another way to get well is to make friends with
clerics who have the ability to cure people from all kinds of things.
However, it is a cleric's option to refuse this kind of service or do it
in exchange for a favor from you.

22) How do I make friends?

Well, hopefully, you should know that by now. Be nice to people, don't bug
them, do good deeds and be funny (people like that, unless you are making
fun of them).

23) Is player killing allowed?

Only in areas known as arenas.  These can be single rooms or entire
areas.  Abuse of this right is justification for removal from
Nightmare.

Though such artificial regulation runs contrary to the philosophy
behind Nightmare, the player-killing ban was implemented due to the
fact that some people took player-killing beyond the gaming spirit and
instead used it as a tool of malice and personal vengeance.

24) How many quests do I have to do?

None.  Nightmare does not require you to do any quests.  Still, they
are a source of money, treasure, prestige, and skill advancement.
Quests give you a list of titles.  You may pick any two of your titles
at any time to be displayed using the "title" command.

25) How much experience do I have?

Unlike other MUDs, Nightmare has no experience points which will help you
determine your experience easily. Instead, your experience is determined
by your skillfulness in the arts essential to your class.

26) How do I advance, then?

Your level respresents how good you are at what you do.  This means
that a level 20 fisher is considered as skillfull at fishing as a
level 20 mage is at the magic arts.  It does not mean that a level 20
fisher should be able to do battle with a level 20 fighter and have
any hope of winning.

A player thus advances through the use of their primary skills.  Each
class has 4 primary skills, and you can list those skills by checking
out the help file for your class.

27) How do I know my stats and skills?

<stats> will give you a list of stats, and <skills> will let you see your
skills.

28) How do I improve my skills?

You are alloted a certain number of training points which you may use
at training centers for training skills.  These are quickly
exchausted, and from that point on, you must use a skill in order to
improve it.  You will receive a certain amount of point each time
you gain a level.  These can be used however you see fit.

29) What do the stats mean?

Stats are numerical representations of your basic physical make up, your
personality and your karma, all of which are determined by your racial
heritage. These stats are used in different relevant aspects of your mud
life. Many stats have an impact on any single facet of your character. The
interactions between stats are very complex and you might begin to
understand them through experience.

30) How do I raise stats?

It depends on the stat.  Some stats, like luck, are with you as is for
all your life.  Others, like strength, improve with use, but decrease
as you enter old age.  Finally, others, like wisdom, improve as you
age.  Which stats do what, however, are highly dependent on your race.

31) What if I don't like my stats?

Every race has its strong points and weak points.  Either you play to
your strengths and become a member of a class which can take advantage
of your strengths, or you accept the challenge of overcoming your weak
points and excelling in a class you are not designed for.

If you really hate your stats, use the "suicide" command to destroy
your character and rebuild anew.

32) I have an idea for something new here, who do I tell?

You have several options:
a) become a creator and build it yourself
This is perhaps the most rewarding option, as you have full creative
control over what eventually happens with your ideas.
b) Use the "bug" command and report your idea
c) mail advocate and tell them your idea

Nightmare is always interested in hearing player ideas.

33) A list of abbreviations:

PK- Player killer
HM- High mortal
cre- Creator
[] - Monument Square in Praxis
du - destroy utterly (a description of damage)

34) How do I see in color?

Since different people have different terminal types, when you first login
to Nightmare your terminal is set to "unknown". If you have a terminal
emulation which supports some sort of standard protocol for producing
color (most vt100's support ansi), you may use the command "terminal" to
choose a protocol. See "help terminal".

35) How do I know what commands exist?

Type "help player commands" for player commands, "help spell commands"
for a list of spells, "help item commands" for commands used on items,
and "help room commands" for general room-based commands.  "help
index" will give you a list of other command types as well.

36) I do not like my character or I no longer want to play 
Nightmare. How do I get rid of my character?

Use the "suicide" command.

This FAQ was first written by Descartes in 1992. Extensive modifications
and additions were completed by Xymox in November 1995. Direct all
questions and concerns to Xymox.
